R740 · is the shortfall resolvable at all
written BEFORE run.py. P4 and the ARITHMETIC step ran first.

WHY THIS ROUND, AND WHY IT IS NOT ANOTHER EXPLANATION
   R738 measured ten negative excesses; R739 refuted the one explanation on offer and left them
   unexplained. Three rounds have now reasoned about a quantity whose own resolution nobody has
   measured. The standard's own history names this: a deficit inside its own floor's noise needs no
   explanation.

⛔ ARITHMETIC FIRST, AND IT ALREADY THREATENS THE NUMBERS
   Three uncertainty sources, measured or derivable before this round:
     construction seed spread over all curve points   0.0153
     model held-out deviation, bounding interpolation 0.0100
     sampling SE of r at n=968                        0.0110 at r=0.81 … 0.0244 at r=0.49
   Quadrature gives ~0.0213 for the greedy-oracle cell. The two smallest excesses in the arc are
   0.0176 (R738) and 0.0167 (R739). SEVERAL OF THE TEN SIT INSIDE THAT.
   ⚠ AND QUADRATURE IS THE WRONG COMBINATION. r and the floor are computed on the SAME prompts, so
   their errors are correlated and the difference is more stable than independence implies. This
   round therefore does not use quadrature; it bootstraps the prompts and recomputes BOTH terms on
   each resample, which is exact for the excess and needs no independence assumption. Quadrature is
   carried only as a labelled naive comparator.

ESTIMAND
   For each of the ten (object, reference) cells, the bootstrap distribution of the EXCESS -- the
   real correlation minus its overlap-matched floor -- with prompts resampled and both terms, and the
   overlap itself, recomputed on every resample. Then: how many excesses have a 95% interval
   excluding zero, and how many of the two ORDERING gaps do?

IDENTIFICATION
   Identified: prompts are the sampling unit and every quantity is a function of them. NOT
   identified: uncertainty from the criterion pool itself, which is fixed by the release; a second
   release would be needed to price that, and this round's interval is conditional on this pool.

SCOPE
   population : the prompts R738's curves were built on · instrument prompt bootstrap, both terms
                recomputed together · baseline R738's point excesses · regime default emitter
WORLDS
   W-UNRESOLVED  a material share of the ten excesses have intervals covering zero. Then the arc has
                 been explaining numbers its design cannot resolve, and the honest report is a bound.
   W-RESOLVED    the intervals exclude zero. Then the shortfall is real at this resolution and its
                 explanation is genuinely open.
   prediction matrix
      >= 4 of 10 cover zero -> UNRESOLVED 0.85  RESOLVED 0.05
      <= 1 covers zero      -> UNRESOLVED 0.05  RESOLVED 0.90

REGISTERED POINTS (failable)
   A  quadrature estimate for the greedy-oracle cell -- a labelled NAIVE comparator = 0.021 [0.000, 1.000]
   B  bootstrap SE of the greedy-oracle excess                                      = 0.020 [0.000, 1.000]
   C  of the ten excesses, how many have a 95% interval EXCLUDING zero              = 5     [0, 10]
   D  of the two ordering gaps, how many have an interval excluding zero            = 2     [0, 2]
   DIRECTIONAL (separately failable): the bootstrap SE is SMALLER than the quadrature estimate,
   because r and its floor share prompts and move together. Fails if it is larger.

KILL (CONDITIONAL -- evaluated only if the POSITIVE and g=0 controls both fire)
   if positive_fires and g0_zero:
       C <= 6 -> W-UNRESOLVED: the excesses that cover zero are reported as UNRESOLVED, not as
                 shortfalls, and every sentence in the record resting on them is amended
       else   -> W-RESOLVED
   else:
       verdict = UNVERIFIED   # never OVERTURNED, never CONFIRMED

POSITIVE CTRL   bootstrap a quantity whose standard error is known analytically -- the mean of a
                per-prompt vector, SE = sd/sqrt(n) -- and require the bootstrap SE to match it within
                5%. An interval estimator that cannot reproduce a known SE prices nothing.
g=0             the excess of an arm against ITSELF is identically zero, so its bootstrap interval
                must be exactly [0, 0]. The control must not manufacture width where there is none.
NEGATIVE CTRL   run the bootstrap with resampling disabled (identity indices) and require every SE to
                be exactly 0. excluded world: "the width comes from the recomputation, not from the
                resampling".
SHAM            bootstrap ONLY the correlation while holding the floor at its point value -- the
                joint-resampling ingredient ABSENT rather than inverted -- and report that SE beside
                the joint one. It should be LARGER, and if it is not, the two terms do not move
                together and the directional above is wrong for a reason worth naming.
PLACEBO         a cell against itself -> interval exactly [0, 0].
NOISE FLOOR     the bootstrap's own Monte-Carlo error from >= 3 seeds at 2000 resamples, reported
                beside every SE so no interval is quoted tighter than the estimator's own noise.
MULTIPLICITY    10 cells + 2 ordering gaps, all reported with intervals, coverers and non-coverers
                alike; BH over the ten where a p is defined.
SPECIFICATION   resampling unit (prompt) x quantity (excess, ordering gap) x estimator (percentile,
                basic) x seed
SEEDS           3 bootstrap seeds x 2000 resamples; two PYTHONHASHSEEDs byte-identical, writes verified
ARTIFACT        results/r740_resolution.json with tree_sha
IMPOSSIBLE      uncertainty from the criterion pool itself -> a second release · independently
                replicated -> a second implementer
